hey guys welcome to the live by
intellipaat i am ram and i'll be the one
covering the live today so guys today
we'll be learning how to start coding
so if you're a fresher or if you're
someone who's just interested into
getting into coding then this live is
for you
all right so in this session you know uh
we'll basically be discussing a lot of
different topics that will pertain to
how you can start with coding
all right guys now
we always do this for our youtube
regulars but if are new here please
stick till the end because there is a
surprise for you
all right so now let's take a quick look
at our agenda
so in our session today we'll be
discussing different topics and these
are the different topics first why learn
coding
then we'll move on to how you can start
coding for yourself how will you start
it then third we'll discuss which
languages should you start with which
language should you choose
then we'll discuss how you can choose a
project we'll discuss what this
particular topic is and then we'll
discuss the learning path what is the
learning path you should take and
finally we will conclude by discussing
what are the different kinds of jobs you
can get in this particular field
so guys let's go ahead and start the
session so our first question here is
our first
discussion topic
why learn coding
so this is the question for you as well
as me
why should you learn coding
and
do you really want to learn it
so let's actually discuss a story
so we have a person
and this person wants to earn a very
high salary
they don't know what they want to do in
life but they just know they want to
learn they want to earn a very high
salary so they decide to become a
software engineer or software developer
because they heard that it pays a lot
then there is a person who's just
interested in coding and in developing
in programming so they take up this
particular field of coding programming
just because they're interested in this
field
and then there's this third person
he is he has already been working in a
particular field suppose he's a business
analyst
now he's been working since the 90s or
the 80s and during that time they didn't
use any such you know special algorithms
to
think about the data and make powerful
decisions
but these days the market has to change
and he has to adapt with the market to
incorporate coding into his own you know
working culture so that he can make
better decisions based on the data that
is being collected you know how data
science works right
so all these three people have the same
goal in mind
they want to become
better at coding they want to become
coders or programmers they want to
become programmers at least they want to
learn what coding is or how to
work with coding
so these can be a few of the reasons why
you would want to become a coder
maybe you want to get a really high
paying job maybe you're just interested
in coding maybe you just you know
learning coding to adapt with the change
you know with the market adapt to the
market adapt to the change that's
happening to the market
so you should ask yourself why do you
want to learn coding now this is
important
you should ask this question to yourself
because you know if you don't have the
motive of your learning in mind
properly then you will you know follow
the horse you once you start learning
coding if you see you know come across
an error then you if you're not able to
solve that error then you know you stop
doing it because you don't have any
proper motivation so make sure that you
have a proper motivation in your mind
when you start off by learning what
coding is
so ask yourselves this question why do
you want to learn coding
all right guys now let's discuss how you
can start coding
by yourself okay
so
you can start coding off
you know basically
by figuring out what you want to do all
right so let's discuss this
so now you've asked yourself that you
know what what is your motive to become
become a coder what is you why do you
want to program now you have to go ahead
with the next step that is to learn how
to start coding
so coding you know this is a very
generic term how to start coding it's a
very vast field you know computer
science is a very vast field there are
so many different fields you can get
into
so you have to narrow it down so you
know this is like problem solving you
have a very big problem you divide into
smaller parts and then solve it so
similarly with this question of how to
start coding you need to divide it into
a smaller component
so
with the question how to start coding
you should first go ahead and narrow it
down to where do you want to code or how
do you want to code so first you need to
figure out what do you want to do with
coding do you want to develop an
application do you want to make a bot do
you want to develop a website what kind
of thing do you want to do so once
you've figured that out you should go
ahead
and learn what are the languages and the
tools that are required for the
particular thing let me give you an
example like of the person who is just
interested in coding but he's not he's
never gotten the recording he's just
heard about how hacking is so cool and
he wants to get into coding so he starts
off by first
deciding what kind of projects he wants
to do
so he wants to do a project where he's
going to be making a recommendation
system on a website but the thing is
this recommendation system does not use
any powerful algorithms or something
it's just for him
to share a few details with his family
because the family lives far apart
so he just wants to share a few details
with them so
to do that he just made this application
so see it has a practical use this
particular project and while doing this
project he's learning a lot of things
he's learning how to code a website he's
learning html css javascript php
database technology a lot of different
things
now this is how i recommend you should
go ahead with it too you should first
figure out what you want to do then
figure out what language and tool you
need for it then learn the basics of
that language like you know all the
different basics of a particular
language you should learn that and then
move ahead and make the application
now a few you know a disclaimer here
when you're going to make this
application make sure that the
application you're making is a very
simple one
because when you start off always start
with baby steps because if you start
with something gigantic if you want to
make like the whole facebook website
then you'll obviously fall off the first
step itself because you don't know where
to start from so if you're rather making
such a huge website what you can do is
you can just you know start by creating
a small website where you basically can
create accounts and you know post
statuses that's it
so this is how you i suggest you guys
should start off by you know i should
start coding
all right
so
first that is figure out what you want
to do so let me give an example so you
can do a lot of things you can make a
small game so if you're into gaming and
you want to make a you know a particular
smart you know you want to get into the
gaming industry you want to become a
game developer
then you should start over making a very
small game you know app
not an apps per se like a particular
like a snake ladders you know snake game
the one we had on nokia mobiles like
that that sort of a game a very simple
one like you know um
the you know the defender
the defender game where you're basically
shooting aliens from you know below
and if you're not that then you can go
ahead and make a web application or a
mobile application a very simple one per
sale you know like uh you know very
small things in mobile traffic you're
going to make a mobile app i would
recommend not going for a mobile app
right now but if you're really
interested in making a mobile app then
you can go ahead and make a very simple
app that just opens up and tells you
what the time is so that way
so then this way first figure out what
you really want to do
as a project then figure out what are
the languages and tools you can use so
there are a lot of languages out there
that you can use
like let me give you that you have
python c plus plus javascript and you
have similarly tools with them that you
know that you have to use with them you
can use your ides that integrated
development environments you know
basically where you write the code
and you need compilers and all those
tools so figure out what do you need
with all of this so to give you a better
idea let's take an example of you know
you want to make a web application so
you've decided that you're going to be
making that web application where you're
basically going to be displaying time of
all the family members that are living
across the globe
and then you decide to choose a
particular language you go ahead using
javascript because you know that is
what's used to create the front end you
use javascript html css to make the
front end and then you decide to use a
particular tool maybe you're using
visual studio code as the place where
you write the javascript code so that is
the tool you're using
then you learn the basics of that
language now javascript will have a lot
of different basics but it has some
coding basics also like you know you
have your loops like for loops while
loops then you have if statements then
you have variables then you have
functions and arrays
so these are like a kind of the basics
of the particular language
not just the language these are
fundamentals of any language when you're
working with any language you'll have
loops if statements variables and
functions and arrays
and similarly you know that example of
you know making that website you're
learning javascript so you'll have to
learn these and then you have to learn
the basics of the language itself you'll
have to learn a little bit of html a
little bit of css a little bit of
javascript and once you learn all of
those you know the fundamentals of all
of those things then you can go ahead
and create the application that you want
to
now and then create a basic application
so now you know he's he knows what he
wants to create and he's creating it
then so the process of creation when
he's creating the web application he'll
be learning a lot of things he'll be
learning how to create functions in
javascript he'll be learning how to
place
certain things using css how to color
them how to make it more fancy looking
and how to you know divide the content
using html so a lot of different things
you'll be learning when you're creating
this application now remember a very
important factor here is that you should
not go for something that is complicated
you should go for something that is very
simple if you go for very simple then
you know yeah in the starting it feels
like oh i'm not doing anything but
actually learning so if you complete
this application right then you should
give yourself a pat on the back because
you've done something amazing you
started from not knowing anything
encoding to create a basic application
yeah that's a good step once you've
learned this then you should go ahead
for different other applications like
once you complete your first project do
a second project this time when you're
doing a second project make sure that
it's a little bit more complicated again
not so complicated as making a whole
facebook website make it a little bit
more complicated so that you know you
can work with it and learn new things
with it so you know the whole cycle
repeats you define an aim again you
choose the particular language well
you've already chosen the language you
choose what are the libraries you're
going to use all the different tools
you're going to use and you're going to
learn how to use them so this way slowly
slowly doing projects you'll learn how
to become a coder
so guys that is how you're going to
start coding
all right so let me just brief you know
briefly tell you like how you should
choose what kind of language what kind
of tools you need to use so all those
things let me just brief you on that so
when it comes to which language should
you choose not just for working with
your project maybe you're thinking okay
so i've understood this guy's way but i
just want to start with the language
i've heard of all these different
languages c plus plus java python so
which language should i choose you know
so that really depends because there are
a lot of different factors here
so you have a lot of languages out there
you have python kotlin c plus plus c
sharp
javascript swift java ruby php node.js r
there are so many different languages
for so many different use cases
so again you would have to define our
aim for yourself up define a particular
project for yourself so that you know
you can
learn though
all these tools and languages
on the journey
there because if you have a name you
won't falter you won't you know if you
have an error you will try to solve it
you will try to solve it because you
have a aim and you want to accomplish
that aim so that's why
so choosing a language
well
i would actually recommend you guys
start off with python itself well python
and javascript are pretty easy to start
off with but personally i would
recommend python because python is one
of the most easiest languages out there
now it's very easy to learn like the
learning curve is not very steep it's a
very gradual curve so you can learn
easily with python it's got very simple
syntax you know you know you don't have
to type complicated syntax for it you
can you have a lot of different
tutorials and guides out there we
ourselves in telepath have a very long
lecture that gives you everything you
need to know about python so right now
you can open up another tab and type in
python telepath and you'll find a very
good video that will explain to you how
you can start coding with python and if
you're especially a fresher who doesn't
know what he wants to do then you should
definitely check this out because it
will give you an idea about coding
itself and you'll be getting python now
remember i said that python is simple
now it's simple doesn't mean it's bad
python has so many different use cases i
can't even list them down right now a
few of them might be software
development you know data science
and creating bots writing scripts there
are so many things you can do with
python and python is very powerful a lot
of different enterprises make use of
python for their particular applications
and whatever they're working with you
know the projects they use python python
is a very important language
so i suggest you guys to start off with
python
you know if you want to learn python you
can start off by you know looking at the
different tutorials different guides and
if you think you need a
you know certification in python because
maybe you don't have a cs degree you did
not pass out with you know cs or you
don't have a degree yet
then you should definitely get certified
as a python developer and we provide the
same also
again there's a
minus asterisk over here if you have
other languages that you've already
worked on suppose this is a different
use case like this is uh for the case of
a person
who has done some work in c plus plus
but he and he stopped coding for some
time because he thought that this is not
what he wanted to get into but later he
realized his passion again when he
started playing games again so he wants
to get back into coding the whole game
then that in that way then you should
not start off with python maybe you
should start off with c plus itself or
whatever language you've worked with
because then you already have a basic
understanding
and
you've already had the basic
understanding then you can go ahead with
the advanced topics also
again choosing a language can be
difficult in another way also because
you have a lot of different things like
uh to take in fact like what kind of
project you're building so
i told you guys if you want to start off
with just a language you should start
with python but if you want to start off
with a particular project suppose you're
making an ios app then you should
definitely you know use swift
swift
is as you can see this is swift instead
of you know using javascript you can't
use it so you need to use swift if
you're working with android then you
need to work with java and kotlin or if
you're working with any websites and you
need to know again javascript html css
node.js php django all these different
kinds of languages or if you want to
become a data scientist and then you
have to work with python again and then
either r or matlab also you can work
with any three of these and then
software development if you want to get
into software development c-sharp and
java are a good choice and then game
development if you're really into you
know creating games then you can start
off by learning c plus plus and c sharp
so again guys there are a lot of factors
here deciding what kind of language you
want to choose i suggest python because
the python is really easy to do you know
use and it has a lot of use cases it has
really powerful algorithms that you can
use and a lot of powerful libraries that
you can make use of
all right guys so other than languages
what kind of tools can you use so you
know debugging so what is debugging
so if once you start coding right you
will find a lot of errors in your code
like maybe you made a
you know a page of code and it basically
tells you the time and
right now it's not working in the
compiler you're getting a particular
error you're getting an error that this
particular thing is missing so how do
you check that out because in a starting
you'll be working by yourself because
you're learning the basics so you can
make use of google
google is one of the best tools out
there search that error whatever error
you get search it if you search it
you'll find that there are other people
out there who made similar mistakes like
you know like you've made
that's why i wouldn't recommend ever
starting with a book because with a book
you are narrowed down and you can't ask
anyone for help so learning online is
like a really good opportunity so use
google in your debugging so debugging
would be basically removing that bug
that is the error and you google it and
you'll find a lot of different sources
that will tell you how you can solve
your error and this is where stack
overflow comes now stack overflow is
something you're going to be hearing a
lot of times like stack overflow is very
important if you're getting into coding
so remember stack overflow is basically
a place it's like quora but it's for
like technical stuff you ask questions
and people will try to answer back with
you know uh people who are suppose
you're answering a question in python
then peop a person who's really you know
um
good at python will try to answer a
question now stack overflow has a really
good community but we in telepath also
have a really good community if you go
ahead and ask a question then we will
also there will be people in our
community that will try to answer these
questions also so this is how you can
you know solve your debugging and try
debugging
and these are your debugging tools and
then you have version control systems
now remember guys if you're working
uh on software development right then
you'll definitely be using working you
know writing code you'll be coding so
where will you write you know store this
code so if i wanted to give you a brief
uh explanation of what gate is git is
basically a place where you store your
code
and why i wrote version control system
here is because so when you're writing
your like let's take an example if you
have a project right your project might
have different like your first iteration
of a project you made your project and
it works really fine but now you want to
add more features to it so once you
start adding more features to it you
create a new version of your project
it's like having different versions of
an app you'll have uh application
version one application version two
application version three now for codes
of all of those threes will be stored
separately and that's how you that's why
like that's a basic explanation of what
git will be doing for you so if you're
confused right now don't worry just get
just learn how to use git it is very
important for any coder out there and
know that it basically is used for
storing your code
then you have your integrated
development environment so you have
intellij visual studio and android
studio all of these different studios
are basically places where you write the
code now you're writing the code in them
and you're making use of the
functionality they give you now suppose
you're writing your code in one of these
ides integrated development environments
and you want to use a piece of code
that is very long and you don't want to
write it from the scratch
so you can just use the libraries it
provides you or any plug-in separately
so just remember that id is a place
where you're going to be writing a code
and using a lot of its functionalities
from here and there so guys these are
the different tools you'll need to know
and choose you know basically choose the
tool based on the language like or
choose any integrated like there are
different integrated development
environments out there you have a visual
studio code that can be used for
different languages also but it's mainly
used for c sharp c plus plus visual
basic and etc and if you want to work
with python you have your integrated
development i you know environment like
idle or pycharm etc
all right guys now how do you choose go
ahead and choose a project
now choosing a project is as important
as completing the project itself because
you're going to be you know
using this as your main objective your
main goal
it's like
you know suppose you're taking
you're going to be making a bot you're
going to be making a bot that posts
questions on facebook for you
so that is your project that is your
main goal
and make sure you keep it a very simple
one again a disclaimer guys
so if you are going to be starting to
code make sure that the project you're
choosing is a very simple project
even though it's simple it still sets a
goal for you right
and now you know that you're going to be
starting off simple and you're going to
be choosing a project so how do you
choose a project
so guys choosing off a project you know
the first thing you should do is
make sure that it's simple okay and the
next thing ask yourself a question
ask yourself what are you interested in
suppose you sitting there viewing right
now are very interested in cricket
and
you want to get into coding so what you
can do is you can basically create a
website
or you can create a website that
basically lists down all the famous
cricketers out there sachin or adam
gilchrist serve richards you can you
know basically list you can create this
can be your project where you're writing
you know listing down all the different
greatest players out there on your
website so that can be a project so ask
yourself what are you interested in it
can't just be cricket it can be a lot of
different things and make a project
based on that or you if you if you want
you can do this also you can basically
check out uh ask you know
see if your family is having issues ask
them and make sure that it's a little
bit simple or ask them what issues
they're facing suppose they're not able
to contact you properly i know we have
thoughts out these days but just imagine
we didn't have whatsapp and they want to
contact you with you
they want to maintain contact with you
so you can make a very simple messaging
on a very basic email application where
you're you know sending mail to them
they're receiving they're sending it
back to you a similar use case try to
think of an idea that you like or do you
have you want to do it passionately and
choose that as your project now again
once you've decided what you want to do
you that
particular thing will fall into a domain
now i said that you could be creating a
website now website will fall into a
domain of web development so there are
multiple different web domains so let's
discuss them so you have web development
web development you can see all the
different languages you'll be choosing
like your javascript html css node.js
php
django etc and you guys see if you
notice django is basically used for
writing the backend and it again is
based on python so you see how important
python is
then you have a different domain like
android we're using java and kotlin then
you're using ios swift and for data
science and data engineering have python
r matlab software development java c
python again
game development c plus plus c sharp so
you have so many different domains you
can choose from choose the one that
you're interested in
and
try to find that and try to find
something that has a use
all right guys
so i've told you how you can start
coding you know
now let's see the learning path for a
coder
so as a you know in learning path you'll
be you know do so first of all what you
should do is you should make sure
that you're learning online because uh
you can learn in classes also but online
is just much more easier you have your
own self-paced and you can do it by
yourself
so i recommend trying and going on you
know those websites out there like free
code camp that provide you know help you
in coding they basically
give you small tutorials where you learn
the basics of coding
or if you want
if you want to be instructed by someone
if you want to be uh you know taught by
someone who has had a years of
experience in a particular language then
you can get
online courses now we here at intel park
provide a lot of different courses and
if you're choosing a language like
suppose you choose in python you have a
lot of things you can do you have the
python certification training so
basically you will be taught by mul you
know different by people
who are well versed in python who've
been working with python for years in
the industry they have a lot of
experience so if you have any doubt they
will be able to answer it without any
hesitation or at least they will try to
so that is get certified you know
certification can help you a lot
especially if you don't have a cs degree
or if you don't have a degree if you
don't have a degree at all it's okay
doesn't matter just get try to get a
certification and build your skills
build your skills add projects to your
resumes do all of those things they will
greatly help you out and if you're a
person who does not have any you know
any any degree that is relevant like you
don't have a cs degree or an ec degree
then again that is also fine
coding is something that is easy to
start with you can easily start it off
and get into it really easily also
all right guys so let's move back
all right guys so in your learning path
you should start up in learning the
basics of the coding you've chosen a
field already you know your domain the
project the tools the language you'll be
working with then go ahead and learn all
the basics learning the basics should
take you about a month i mean if you're
if you're you know
starting from beginning you'd know
nothing about coding you're starting off
from scratch even then will just take
you a month to learn all the basics of
the fundamentals of coding out there
especially if you're you know working
with python from there on learning the
advanced topics may take up to a few
months and mastering them even may take
up to a year now have you heard of any
skill that you know you can complete and
learn so easily so fast
well coding is that particular field you
can learn the basics very fast you can
master the you know
advanced elements also pretty fast
etc
so you know what for learning path what
you can do is you can either get
certified from uh any of the companies
out there like in telepath we provide a
certification where people help you out
you know you have your online
instructors or what you can do is you
can basically uh check out our blogs our
channels if you you know look up our
youtube channel we have a very good uh
courses that we give out for free like
uh they don't have projects with them
and you know nobody teaches you like no
trainer will be able to answer your
doubts but they're still really good and
professionally made and they'll help you
start off they'll give you a you know
platform to start off so you guys can go
and check them or if you want you can
check out our blogs also and remember
guys if you have any doubts that you're
not able to answer then you can go ahead
and type them in our community
so if you can just type in telepath
slash community
and as you can see you can easily just
log in and register and then go ahead
and ask a question if you're having any
query doubts
so guys that was it for learning path
you know you basically gotten to know
how you can start coding so you use the
knowledge i've given you okay
all right so
the last thing we're going to discuss is
what kind of jobs can you expect
now
you've gotten into coding you've at
least got an idea and let's just give
you the juicy part now what kind of jobs
can you expect so there are different
fields out there you have your cloud
computing software development game
development machine learning data
science big data web development there
are so many different domains out there
for you to choose because you know you
can use coding in all of these different
fields obviously coding is not going to
be the only thing
you know you'll start off by coding
you'll master the elements of coding
then you will go ahead and specialize in
few areas if you suppose let me give you
an example if you're you know going to
cloud computing you'll learn the
architecture of the cloud so that is
again a knowledge you're getting if
you're going to software development you
know you'll have to
utilize all the different uh devops
things and cloud a lot of different
things you'll be using software
development and game development is a
you know a very new field also it
started off recently
and it also has a lot of opportunities
it's going to be a little bit more
different than all the other fields but
it utilizes a lot of elements from the
other fields as well as coding
and then you have machine learning this
is a very good you know like a very big
buzz word because machine learning is
like a very sought after job a lot of
people
go ahead and learn you know
get very good at machine learning and
get paid really high salaries because
you know machine learning is the future
then you have data science you know
where you're basically studying the data
so you'll be making use of lot of other
elements like mathematics and statistics
but you'll be using coding also and
again for data science you guys know
python is very important python is
important for so many things then you
have big data
where you'll be you know analyzing a lot
of data coming in so and then you have
web development so guys these are just a
few domains that i've listed there are a
lot more domains out there you can look
for them yourselves because if your
interest lies in this particular field
then you can go and get you know look at
that particular field suppose let me
give that qriket example again so
you know uh data data analysis happens
in cricket also because you know you
have to figure out uh how long the
player will last on the field how many
runs will you make
and how's the weather going to be so in
even that kind of field you'll be using
coding so look at the field you are
interested in
find a particular topic that you want to
do like a project you want to do
figure out what are the different uh
lang what is the language you need to
learn what are the different tools
you'll need and then go ahead and make
that application a simple one
all right guys as the code says here an
investment in knowledge always pays best
interest
that basically is saying you know you
invest a little money on in little time
in learning a particular thing
like coding and you know it'll pay off
in the future it'll help you out a lot
all right guys who are new here or even
those regulars here
we have a flat 30 off on all our courses
you can use the coupon code youtube30
and get flat 30 off on all of our
courses so guys go ahead get this
limited youtube coupon code and you know
get your 30 off
all right guys thanks for thank you for
watching here are numbers listed and our
contact details
so if you want to talk to us you know if
you want to decide your career and
you're still kind of confused then go
ahead and call us we give you free
sessions on you know career accounts we
basically do career counseling also
so guys thank you for watching
and i'll leave you be until the next
time
you